# React JS Boilerplate

## Guide

### Install Dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

### Environment Variables

All environment variables for react application must start with `APP_` prefix

To change env prefix change add or remove string from `envPrefix` variable in [`vite.config.json`](./vite.config.ts)

Environtment variables can be accesed using `env.<name>` or [`import.meta.env.<name>`](https://vitejs.dev/guide/env-and-mode.html). Prefix must be included.

Declare env types in `src/env.d.ts` in `ImportMetaEnv` interface

The environment variables can be found and modified in the `.env` file. They come with these default values:

```bash
# Port number (optional, default: 3000)
PORT=3000

# Open browser on start (optional, default: true) if value is other than "true" it will be read as false
OPEN_BROWSER=true
```

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

### Start

Start development build

```bash
npm start
```

### Build

build for production.

```bash
npm run build
```

### Preview

Preview production build

```bash
npm run preview
```

### Clean

Removes all the files generated by the build process.

```bash
npm run clean
```

### Lint Check

Finds errors in your code.

```bash
npm run lint:check
```

### Lint Fix

Fixes linting errors.

```bash
npm run lint:fix
```

### Prettier fix

Fix the code formatting.

```bash
npm run prettier:fix
```

### Prettier check

Check the code formatting.

```bash
npm run prettier:check
```

### Test

Run all tests

```bash
npm run test
```

### Watch test

Watch changed test

```bash
npm run test:watch
```

### Watch all test

Watch all test

```bash
npm run test:watch:all
```

### Test coverage

Run test coverage

```bash
npm run test:coverage
```

### Test changed

Run tests related to changed files based on hg/git (uncommitted files)

```bash
npm run test:changed
```

## Note

-   Babel is only for jest to transpile typescript code. If you don't want to use babel you can use [`vitest`](https://vitest.dev/)
-   [`tsconfig.json`](./tsconfig.json) is for react app typescript configuration
-   [`tsconfig.node.json`](./tsconfig.node.json) is for vite and other development tools typescript configuration that will not be included in build result
-   If you want to disable `pre-commit` or `pre-push` git hook you can remove the hook inside `.husky` directory
-   If you want to disable dependabot you need to remove [`.github/dependabot.yml`](./.github/dependabot.yml)
-   If you want to disable codeql analysis you need to remove [`.github/workflows/codeql-analysis.yml`](./.github/workflows/codeql-analysis.yml)


## Migrate From Create React App

- Change all `process.env` to `import.meta.env` or `env
`